---
layout: article
title: Metrics that matter
thumbnail-path: https://dibdobrob.github.io/robertwadsworth/images/metrics.png
excerpt: if you only collect three metrics, collect these
label: topics
importance: low
sequence: 1
comments: true
---

### Summary
Work in progress, idle time and cycle time are all intrinsically linked. Tweak one and the others will for better or worse change with it.
Between these three metrics we can identify waste, inefficiencies, value delays and get decent overall impression of our agility and 
process maturity.  

These metrics won’t provide you with some magic answers but they will for sure help you to ask some pretty important questions.
If you are unsure how to plot the data check out my post (One chart to rule them all).

### WIP
It’s a fact - we can only work on one thing at a time. I can’t write this post and another post simultaneously. I could however
have two, three or an unlimited amount of posts that I have started and not finished.  

The problem is that if I start many posts the time taken to complete each of them will increase. If I focus on writing only 
one then I will be able to complete it relatively quickly.  

A high WIP to Worker ratio should be considered as a severe health warning, right up there with finding a lump!

### Idle time
If we are working on anything at all related to a specific ticket then that ticket is ‘active’, if we have downed tools for
whatever reason then that ticket is ‘idle’.  

Whilst a ticket is idle no value is being added to it and the value that we have already added is dormant. The longer a 
ticket is idle the greater the reduction in overall potential value to the business. E.g., If I have finished a feature that will increase usage by 100 people per day and that ticket remains dormant on a 
test environment for 10 days then we have lost a potential 1000 users. If each user were to pay £1 then we lost £1000 in revenue.

### Cycle time
From the moment we pick up tools to the second we are able to begin realising value. This is one of the most ‘gamed’ 
stat’s I have come across because people use dev complete, or test complete as a closing point rather than the moment 
a real end user gets their hands on the feature.  

If something sits waiting to be released for a few weeks then dev teams don’t want that to reflect their cycle time.
Our aspiration should be to realise value at the absolute earliest possible time and we should monitor this closely.
