---
published: true
layout: article
title: Truly Agile
thumbnail-path: 'https://dibdobrob.github.io/robertwadsworth/images/chalk.png'
excerpt: back to nature
label: topics
importance: low
sequence: 1
quick-nav: true
comments: true
---
### Back to nature

Reusing words for the purpose of business is somewhat of a pet hate of mine so lets start with a true definition of agile.

> able to move quickly and easily - Oxford Dictionary

Again, stripping away any business meaning, most of us would associate positively with the word 'agile', we would see being agile as a 'good thing'.

Whenever I hear the word agile I think 'Leopard' and I imagine one of those nature documentaries where a leopard is effortlessly chasing its prey through the savanna, changing direction continuously until it out manoeuvres and kills its prey.

So again, forgetting all that agile manifesto bull$%^t, why on earth would any business on the planet not want to be agile in its truest sense. Being agile would be to out manoeuvre your competitors, your market & your consumers in order to, at worst '_stay alive_' and at best to '_thrive, grow and outlive those around you_'.

### Truly agile

MVP, Sprints, Kanban, Release planning, Scrum, Retro's, stand-up's, demo's etc etc are all just tools that we use to be 'more agile' when it comes to 'making software' but not necessarily how we run our businesses.

What is important to point out is that none of this stuff necessarily makes your business any more agile than it was before. If your competitor launches a brand new proposition over night and steals half your trade it is your ability to react (or not) that defines how agile you are.

Can you immediately divert half your resource to getting that business back without further negative consequence. i.e., without half of your work force walking out the door or without impacting sales of another product.

I genuinely believe we can only measure our agility when we are forced to be agile, when we have become the pray of that leopard and it is now us that needs to stay alive.

### It's just good business

So maybe being agile isn't about software, its 'just good business'. I don't have all the answers but my advice to companies would be to look beyond the processes used to create services and products and instead evaluate how your business might react (try running 'war games') to changes in the market. 

Just some questions to consider might be:
- how would your staff cope with immediate and impactful change?
- do you know the impact of killing in flight projects?
- would the bureaucracy in your organisation impede or support the need for sudden change?
- how loyal are your customers? What are they thinking?
- is your technical/physical infrastructure robust enough to deal with change?
- how quickly are your competitors changing?