---
layout: article
title: Teams
thumbnail-path: https://dibdobrob.github.io/robertwadsworth/images/team.png
excerpt: There is an I in team!
label: topics
importance: low
sequence: 1
Comments: yes
---

### A web of conflict
I am often approached by people who are not happy with some element or another of their teams make up, 
structure, motivation, inclusiveness, progress.... the list goes on. Teams are complicated things and it’s a 
miracle that any team ever manages to deliver anything …(be successful?).  

Teams are ultimately made up of individuals and each individual has at least three or four motivators (family, 
money, fame, knowledge, praise, etc) each of which conflict with each other. Create a team of 6 people and you have 24 conflicts and that is before you introduce the motivations of the leaders, business, stakeholders and other teams. At best we might have a couple of hundred (probably thousands maybe even millions) of unique motivators pulling at that team.

### Alignment
So if teams are pretty much doomed to fail as a result of an overwhelming web of conflict then how on earth to they succeed?
I can only think of two substantial enough reasons  
1. Our leaders provide us with a sense of purpose that unites us  
or  
2. a lack of leadership acts as a uniting force and an overwhelming desire for a sense of purpose pulls people together to 
jointly invent one.  

Either way teams succeed when they find enough purpose in what they do that the needs of each individual become less impactful, less distracting and maybe even less dangerous. 

### Successful in whose eyes?
When trying to determine the success or maybe the health of a team as an organism you can’t really judge them against the goals of the
organisation as there are too many external factors that could effect that. Instead I think the best measure is of the teams dynamism,
the ‘quality of being characterized by vigorous activity and progress’.  

As that sounds a bit grey and to incorporate the critical sense of purpose that I mention above,  I might phrase the measure 
for the success of a team as.. “Purposefully progressing with energy, enthusiasm and the freedom of creativity towards a single vision and/or goal.” 
Here’s the problem, in the sentence above I didn’t necessarily say ‘the right goal’ I just said ‘a goal’.

### Teams are just as independant as people
Here’s where my fundamental opinion of teams has changed between starting this post and getting to the end of it. 
Before maybe I thought of a team as ‘part of the machine’ a ‘function of the business’, only to be measured in terms 
of it’s contribution towards the business. Now, I am more of the opinion that teams are as independent as any single 
person and should maybe be measured purely on their ability to perform well as a team and on the progress they make 
towards what they believe to be their purpose.  

Sadly, i’m out of words but this will definitely be a subject that I visit again.
